docs: clarify Coder Agents AI Gateway routing (#25852)
coder/coder: docs/ai-coder/agents/models.md

OpenAI-compatible chat completions endpoint. Use it to connect to self-hosted
models, internal gateways, or third-party proxies like LiteLLM.

Coder Agents provider configuration is shared with the AI Gateway-routed Agents
path. Configure the provider endpoint as the upstream provider or proxy URL, not
Coder's public `/api/v2/aibridge/...` client route.

### Add a provider

1. Navigate to the **Agents** page in the Coder dashboard.
1. Open **Settings** > **Manage Agents** and select the **Providers** tab.
1. Click the provider you want to configure.
1. Enter the **API key** for the provider, if required.

> 1. Set **Endpoint** or **Base URL** to the upstream provider or proxy

Reviewer: Perhaps link to the section below?

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. The provider setup step now links **Endpoint** or **Base URL** to the endpoint/base URL section in `docs/ai-coder/agents/models.md`.

OpenAI-compatible chat completions endpoint. Use it to connect to self-hosted
models, internal gateways, or third-party proxies like LiteLLM.

Coder Agents route model requests through AI Gateway automatically by using

> the provider configuration stored in Coder. Configure the provider endpoint/base

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the provider configuration stored in Coder's database. Configure the provider endpoint/base
```

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. Updated this sentence to say the provider configuration is stored in Coder's database.

<img src="../../images/guides/ai-agents/models-add-provider.png" alt="Screenshot of the add provider form">

> <small>Adding a provider usually requires an API key. AWS Bedrock can also use

Reviewer 2: We should update screenshots at some point, but not going to worry about this for now

ambient AWS credentials. The endpoint should point at the upstream provider or proxy.</small>

## Endpoint/Base URL for OpenAI-compatible providers

> Provider configuration stores an absolute HTTP(S) Endpoint/Base URL. Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provider configuration stores an absolute HTTP(S) endpoint/base URL. Syntax
```

here and elsewhere

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. Normalized prose to `endpoint/base URL` here and elsewhere, while keeping **Endpoint** and **Base URL** for UI labels.

validation confirms that the value is a URL, but it does not prove the upstream
implements the APIs Coder sends.

For the default Agents path through AI Gateway, set the Endpoint/Base URL to the
upstream provider or proxy endpoint. Do not set it to Coder's public AI Gateway
client route, such as `https://<coder-host>/api/v2/aibridge/openai/v1`. Those
`/api/v2/aibridge/...` routes are for external clients that call AI Gateway over

> HTTP.

Reviewer: I think we can drop this.

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. Removed the extra external-client explanation from that section and kept the direct warning not to set Agents provider config to Coder's public AI Gateway route.

`/chat/completions`, `/responses`, and `/models`. This applies to **OpenAI**,
**Azure OpenAI**, **Google**, **OpenAI Compatible**, **OpenRouter**, and
**Vercel AI Gateway** provider types.

Examples:

| Provider type                       | Example Endpoint/Base URL                                  |
|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| OpenAI                              | `https://api.openai.com/v1/`                               |
| Azure OpenAI                        | `https://<resource-name>.openai.azure.com/openai/v1`       |
| Google Gemini OpenAI-compatible API | `https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta/openai/` |
| OpenRouter                          | `https://openrouter.ai/api/v1`                             |
| Vercel AI Gateway                   | `https://ai-gateway.vercel.sh/v1`                          |
| Generic OpenAI-compatible proxy     | `https://provider.example.com/v1`                          |

Confirm the exact endpoint in your provider or proxy documentation. For the
canonical AI Gateway-routed Agents guidance, see

> [Coder Agents through AI Gateway](../ai-gateway/clients/coder-agents.md).

Reviewer: I wonder what value that page will have once this PR lands. Coder Agents will automatically flow through AI Gateway so I don't think we need to have a page for it in AI Gateway?

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. Moved the canonical guidance into the Agents models page, removed Coder Agents from the AI Gateway clients navigation and compatibility table, and kept the old URL only as a short pointer to avoid breaking existing docs links.

<img src="../../images/guides/ai-agents/models-add-provider.png" alt="Screenshot of the add provider form">

<small>Adding a provider usually requires an API key. AWS Bedrock can also use
ambient AWS credentials. The endpoint/base URL should point at the upstream
provider or proxy.</small>

## Endpoint/base URL for OpenAI-compatible providers

Provider configuration stores an absolute HTTP(S) endpoint/base URL. Syntax
validation confirms that the value is a URL, but it does not prove the upstream
implements the APIs Coder sends.

For the default Agents path through AI Gateway, set the endpoint/base URL to
the upstream provider or proxy endpoint. Do not set it to Coder's public AI

> Gateway route, such as `https://<coder-host>/api/v2/aibridge/openai/v1`.

Reviewer: This is duplication; let's only define this in one place ideally.

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. Removed the duplicate endpoint guidance from the intro paragraph and left the detailed guidance in the endpoint/base URL section.

[Architecture](./architecture.md#no-api-keys-in-workspaces) for details
on this security model.

## Credential selection

Coder Agents use the AI providers configured by administrators. Provider API
keys entered by administrators are centralized credentials for the deployment.

> BYOK for Coder Agents is controlled by the global AI Gateway BYOK setting, not

Reviewer: Please link to it
Better yet, let's link to Gateway's [BYOK docs](https://coder.com/docs/ai-coder/ai-gateway/auth#bring-your-own-key-byok)

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. The credential selection section now links the global AI Gateway BYOK setting to `../ai-gateway/auth.md#bring-your-own-key-byok`.

1. If neither credential source is available, models from that provider are
   unavailable to you.

### Removing a personal key

Click **Remove** on the provider card in the API Keys settings tab. Subsequent
requests use deployment-managed credentials when they are configured for that
provider. If no deployment-managed credential is available, add a new personal
key before you use models from that provider.

## Using an LLM proxy

Organizations that route LLM traffic through a centralized proxy, such as
LiteLLM or an internal gateway, can point a provider's **Endpoint** or **Base
URL** at that upstream proxy endpoint. Enter the API key your proxy expects.

Use the **OpenAI Compatible** provider type if your proxy serves multiple model
families through a single OpenAI-compatible endpoint. Include the proxy
provider's documented OpenAI-compatible path prefix, such as `/v1`, when
required.

For Coder's AI Gateway, do not point the shared Agents provider Endpoint/Base
URL at `https://<coder-host>/api/v2/aibridge/...` for the default Agents path.
Those public routes are for external clients. See
[Coder Agents through AI Gateway](../ai-gateway/clients/coder-agents.md) for the

> current configuration model.

Reviewer: Not sure we need this

Author: > Mux responding on behalf of Mike.

Done. Removed the AI Gateway-specific paragraph and retired-page link from **Using an LLM proxy**, leaving the generic proxy guidance.
